[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I honestly feel that
we usually forget just how
unbelievable nuclear
technology happens to be.
But the fact that
human beings have
been able to unlock the secret
of this tiny, little thing
called the atom
and to utilize it
in such a way as to generate
incredible amounts of energy,
an energy that can do
all kinds of things
as well as generate a lot
of dangerous toxic waste,
of course.
But the fact that
we human beings
have been able to unlock
the atom in such a manner
as to get all of
this energy out--
I mean, it's just
incredible to me
when you just stop and think.
And we just go about our days.
And you don't even
think about it.
But it's really
quite significant.
And in context with the whole
situation of UAP or UFOs,
I think there's a lot
of importance here.
A lot.
It's during the
Second World War,
1945, when the first atomic
bomb is detonated in history.
We've never done this before.
When the scientists at
Los Alamos in 1945--
before they detonated
that bomb, they actually
had no idea if this was going to
destroy the entire world, if it
would set off a chain
reaction that would engulf us
all in catastrophic hellfire.
And the crazy thing
is they did it anyway.
Good for us that didn't happen.
But unlocking the
secret to the atom
is an absolutely critical
moment in human history.
And right out of the
gate in the 1940s, when
we started noticing these
so-called flying saucers,
a lot of speculation
followed that,
are these beings
interested in us,
because they see
that we have unlocked
this incredible secret,
this major universal secret,
that of the atom and
nuclear technology?
And there's a lot
of reason to think
that this is actually true.
It's not that there weren't
UFOs in ancient times.
It's not that there
weren't anomalous events
that people of the
distant past encountered.
They probably did.
There's enough
interesting reports
that suggest that in my view.
But it definitely looks to
me that things absolutely
picked up in the post-1945 era.
And a lot of the
key UFO sightings,
particularly the
military UFO sightings,
had a strong connection
to nuclear technology--
atomic testing sites,
uranium mines, missile
silos with nuclear weapons,
and nuclear technology labs,
and so forth.
In a way, that is far
beyond just chance.
So there's a very
strong correlation
with UFOs or UAP and these
particular types of facilities.
And I'm going to talk about
just a few of them here.
One of the interesting sites
where a lot of this activity
happened was the Hanford Site.
That's the Hanford Atomic
Energy Commission plant,
which is now decommissioned.
It's not in operation.
It was very toxic.
This is in the
state of Washington,
off the Pacific Coast
in northwestern US.
But this is a really
important place.
So it was created in 1943.
It was the first ever
plutonium production plant
in the world, the Hanford Site.
And there were UFOs being
seen there on a regular basis.
There are probably so
many of these encounters
that we'll never
even know about.
We get a smattering
of them that have
come through Freedom of
Information Act, and just
general military leaks, and
so forth, not nearly enough
in my view.
But there's a few
that we know about.
In the late 1940s,
early 1950s, there
were lot of UFOs being
seen over the Hanford Site.
One was from May 21, 1949.
You have an F-82
fighter aircraft
being vectored in to the area.
Because an unusual
object had been seen,
believed to be a UFO.
Back at this particular
time, one thing
that really doesn't
get discussed anymore
is how American aircraft,
American fighter
planes were regularly
being scrambled
to investigate and
intercept unknown objects
over sensitive American bases.
Now, when you look at the
map of the United States,
you can really ask yourself,
what nation could possibly
be sending their
secret aircraft over
to spy on the United States?
What?
Canada?
I don't think so.
The Russians were also not
really good candidates.
Because particularly
in the late '40s,
it's not like they had
long-range spy planes that
could maneuver the
way that UFOs could,
to just hang around over places
like the Hanford plant, or Los
Alamos, or Oak Ridge, or
any of these other places.
Not really.
And there's no evidence
that the Russians ever
were engaged in this as
far as anyone can tell.
But on May 21, 1949, you have an
F-82 fighter plane vectored in
to investigate the Hanford area.
This disc head been
seen maneuvering
at speeds much greater
than that of a fighter jet.
Much greater.
So by the time the
F-82 gets there,
that disc is just long gone.
It's just one of many of
these types of incidents that
occurred over the Hanford Site.
One of the most interesting
of these documents
about the Hanford Site
was dated August 4, 1950.
It was written by
a Major Carlen.
And let me just
read this to you.
It's fascinating.
"Since 30 July 1950,
objects round in form
have been sighted over
the Hanford AEC Plant.
These objects reportedly were
above 15,000 feet in altitude.
Air Force jets
attempted interception
with negative results.
All units, including the
anti-aircraft battalion,
radar units, Air Force
fighter squadrons,
and the Federal Bureau
of Investigation
have been alerted for
further observation.
The Atomic Energy Commission
states that the investigation
is continuing, and
complete details
will be forwarded later."
There's a lot to unpack in
that brief, little statement,
in that brief, little memo.
I mean, objects round in form.
OK, so they're not able to
identify these as anything
specific, whatsoever.
And they certainly
don't look like any kind
of ordinary aircraft
with fuselage, and wings,
and so forth.
Round in form.
What can be in the air
that's round in form?
Well, balloons.
OK, sure.
But then, why wouldn't
balloons be easily taken down
by any old aircraft
going up to get them?
They state that aircraft
attempt to intercept
these things with negative
results, so that doesn't work.
And certainly, balloons or
any other kind of round,
harmless objects are not
going to be the cause
to alert anti-aircraft
battalions
and alerting all of these
agencies, including the FBI.
And by the way, the
Atomic Energy Commission,
which was in charge of
all nuclear technology,
is an organization
of extreme levels
of secrecy and protection from
public inquiry to this day.
And they were definitely
involved, definitely
concerned about this.
Another interesting
thing about that
is the last
statement, which just
said the investigation is
continuing and we'll keep you
posted on further results--
well, no one has found out what
those further results happen
to be.
We don't know what any of that
investigation developed into.
Because, well,
that's not something
that we have access to.
But it's a very
interesting thing.
So you've got these objects
over a critically important area
of nuclear technology
in the United States,
part of the Cold War.
And we have no idea
what these things were
or what they could have been.
Now, in addition to that,
there was a significant number
of sightings over the Oak
Ridge nuclear facility
in the state of Tennessee.
This is another of the
very important sites
where the United
States developed
its atomic technology, and
nuclear science, and so forth.
And like Los Alamos, which
I covered in another program
in this series, and like
Hanford, which I just
talked about, Oak Ridge also was
the scene, since 1947 onward,
of a large number
of UFO sightings.
Large numbers.
In fact, one goes
back to June of 1947,
a month before Roswell, probably
even before the famous sighting
by flyer Kenneth Arnold
of the so-called flying
saucers out on the
West Coast of the US.
In 1947, nuclear technology
was absolutely cutting edge.
I mean, flying over a
nuclear installation was
a very serious matter, indeed.
Yet, something highly unusual
was over the Oak Ridge facility
in June of 1947.
And we know about this
in a 1949 FBI memorandum
which talked about it.
What was incredible is
that there were apparently
visual observation and radar
tracking of this object.
And someone took a
photograph of it.
And there were apparently 24
copies made of that photograph.
24 copies.
That sounds like an
interesting picture to me.
We have no idea what
the thing looked like,
because the pictures
have never been released.
But I assume that
someone thought
it was pretty interesting.
By 1948, '49, 1950, UFO
sightings over Oak Ridge
were tracked with such
frequency that there
were FBI memos that listed
a whole bunch of them
in chronological order.
We're talking dozens of them
in a very short period of time.
Yeah, Oak Ridge was
definitely the scene
of a lot of very
unusual activity.
Something seemed to have
been snooping around there.
To me, the most interesting
of the Oak Ridge cases
is from July of 1953 where
an employee at Oak Ridge
noticed an F-86 fighter
aircraft circling over the area
couple of times
and then flying off
in the direction of Knoxville.
And at that point, he
sees a black object
come out of a very
high cloud and start
doing maneuvers that
are, frankly, impossible
for us to understand.
Let me read this memo to you.
"At approximately 3:00
PM on July 19, 1953,
an F-86 aircraft was observed
flying over the Oak Ridge
residential area, making circles
at what appeared to the writer
to be approximately
2,500 or 3,500 feet.
The F-86 flew over the area in
this manner for approximately
10 or 15 minutes.
The writer, together
with his wife,
observed the aircraft through a
pair of 6-power field glasses.
After the aircraft
flew in what appeared
to be the direction of
Knoxville, Tennessee,
a black object moved out
of a high white cloud
directly over the area
the F-86 had been flying.
This object began to travel
at a tremendous speed
in a large circle.
The action on the part
of the unknown object
continued for at
least five minutes.
During the circle
of this object,
it appeared at times to
be in the shape of a cigar
and at other times round.
This object was
extremely black in color,
having an appearance
of a deep black metal
exterior with a fine gloss.
It did not leave a
vapor trail or were
there are any lights
of shine noticed.
No sound was heard.
The object flew east
at a tremendous speed
for what appeared to be
approximately three miles where
it stopped.
The object was then joined by
two more of these same objects.
A formation similar to
a spread V was formed.
And the objects, at
a tremendous speed,
flew in an eastward direction."
You read reports like
that, and you just
go, wow, where was freedom
of information back in 1953?
Could you imagine what
the public reaction
might have been if
a report like that
had been able to get out to
the general public at the time?
As it stands, we
didn't learn about this
until many, many decades
later when, who knows?
Did people just stop caring?
Report comes out, drops
into the memory hole,
and is completely
forgotten thereafter.
But that's an amazing case.
And what could this have been?
What can fly at a
tremendous speed,
and then stop, and
then to be joined
by two other similar
objects, whereupon
they take off at a tremendous
speed and they're gone?
Something very unusual
has been going on
at these nuclear facilities.
Yes, indeed.
And by the way, not only
within the United States.
There's one other report I
want to share with you here,
about a really
extraordinary UFO being seen
over a uranium mine
in what was then
the Belgian Congo in Africa.
This incident is from a
report from March of 1952,
over the southern part
of the Belgian Congo,
near a place called
the Luapula River where
there was an active uranium
mine in operation at the time.
And you have a
number of witnesses
on the ground seeing several
very, very interesting UFOs.
These were described
as fiery disks
flying in what was described
as elegant curves in the area,
making incredible maneuvers,
incredible speeds, stopping,
zigzagging, and things that
just no one knew how to explain.
So at that point, they scramble
a fighter plane to investigate.
The name of the pilot
was a Commander Pierre.
He gets into his fighter plane.
He gets to within, he says,
about 100 or so meters from one
of the objects,
really quite close.
He gets a good look at it.
I want to read from
the report here.
"On his first approach, he came
within about 120 meters of one
of the discs.
According to the
estimates, the saucer
had a diameter from 12 to 15
meters and was discus shaped.
The inner core remained
absolutely still.
And a knob coming
out of the center
and several small openings
could plainly be seen.
The outer rim was
completely veiled in fire
and must have had an
enormous speed of rotation.
The color of the metal was
similar to that of aluminum."
Commander Pierre tried
for about 15 minutes
to engage with these discs.
I mean, he was completely
unable to do anything.
The speeds were beyond
anything that he could achieve.
The maneuverability--
these things
could seemingly stop
and start and move
in ways that would kill
any kind of human being
that would be
inside these things.
And his conclusion is that they
probably weren't even manned.
He didn't see how it
could be possible.
After about 15 minutes, he
just had to give up the chase.
There was nothing that
he could do about them.
Now, here again,
so we've got UFOs
being seen over an
active place having
to do with nuclear technology
and nuclear production.
I think that they're
interested in our nukes.
I think they're interested
in our atomic energy.
This is something that is of
a high level of significance.
And whoever is behind these
objects, these UAP, these UFOs,
I don't think this is an
American secret project.
It certainly doesn't
seem like it would be.
And if it's Russian,
the Russians
are certainly going about that
in a very bizarre way, indeed.
If they want to study
and spy on a uranium
mine in Belgian Congo,
you'd think that they'd
have better ways of doing it.
Whatever this object
was, is nothing
that we had ever been
able to identify.
That's for sure.
These stories are
just scratching
the surface, frankly,
of the connection
between UFOs and nukes.
There's just so much there.
It seems to me that
none of this is
an accident, that our technology
in this particular area
is of definite interest
to other people,
to other beings who are taking
a look at us and wondering,
what are these humans up to now?
[MUSIC PLAYING]